VERSION CONTROL: A version control system is a software tool that helps manage changes to code, documents, or other digital assets over time. It allows multiple users to collaborate on a project by tracking changes, identifying who made them, and allowing for easy rollbacks to previous versions. Popular version control systems include Git, Subversion, and Mercurial. They provide features such as branching, merging, and tagging, which enable teams to work efficiently and effectively on complex projects. Version control systems are essential for software development, but can also be applied to other fields such as writing and research.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GIT AND GITHUB: Git and GitHub are two related but distinct concepts in the world of software development. Git is a version control system that helps developers track changes made to their codebase over time. It's a tool that allows developers to manage different versions of their code, collaborate with others, and revert to previous versions if needed. GitHub, on the other hand, is a web-based platform that hosts and manages Git repositories. It provides a central location for developers to store, share, and collaborate on their code, as well as features like issue tracking, project management, and social networking. In summary, Git is the underlying technology, while GitHub is the service that utilizes Git to provide a platform for developers to work together on their projects.
THREE OTHER GITHUB ALTERNATIVES: 1, GitLab 2, BitBucket 3, OneDev
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GIT FETCH AND GIT PULL : Git fetch and git pull are two related but distinct commands in Git. Git fetch retrieves changes from a remote repository without merging them into your local work. It downloads the latest changes but doesn't integrate them with your current branch. On the other hand, git pull updates your local repository to match a remote one by fetching and merging changes. Essentially, git pull is a combination of git fetch and git merge. This means you should use git pull when you want to update your local branch with the changes, but use git fetch when you only want to keep your local repository up-to-date without merging changes.
GIT REBASE AND THE COMMAND FOR IT: Git rebase is a command used to integrate changes from one branch into another, but in a way that rewrites the history of your project. COMMAND: git checkout "name of current repo" ; git rebase "name of main repo" ; git rebase --continue
GIT CHERRY-PICK AND THE COMMAND FOR IT: Git cherry-pick is a command that lets you apply a specific commit from one branch to another branch. It's like "picking" just one or more commits you want and bringing them to your current branch without merging everything from the source branch. COMMAND: git log ; git checkout main ; git cherry-pick a1b2c3d.
